so you were playing basketball for since
you were 17 years old and this is the
first season since then you haven't been
doing it it's got to feel a little weird
tonight being here with us which we're
happy about no you know what it feels
feels natural actually you know it's uh
you know it's I never would imagine
saying that years ago right but feeling
completely at peace with the decision
and time to step away from the game I I
feel you know it's weird I mean I didn't
know open the night was tonight until I
spoke to a friend yesterday and he said
are you going to watch the game tomorrow
night said what game he said open the
night start I oh didn't realize it right
you know and uh so you're not watching
the game and you're not checking the
score no unless unless some great uh
entrepreneur in here has some new
technology where I can put glasses on
and watch the game simultaneously while
talking to you people right right U I'm
missing it they may okay so uh when you
were playing uh ball I think you shot
about what was your field goal
percentage 45% or so I have no idea okay
somewhere around there 4 % here here's
what I'm wondering are you ready to
shoot 5% as a good venture capitalist
might be lucky too no shoot higher than
that no I think it's it's it's a
different transition you know because
you know from an investment perspective
investor perspective um it's a different
ball game because in basketball and in
sports you're used to have an immediate
gratification you come to a game you
play that night you either win or you
lose right
right there's not so much of the patient
game that takes place um on the surface
right but the way I approach it is say
I'm used to having this patient approach
because when you start training camp
you're building the tools necessary to
win a championship so you have to have
the patience you have to strategically
um build out this structure of your
offense this structure of your defense
for the first month of the season they
move on to the second phase and the
third phase you patiently build it up so
you know the the way I'm approaching the
second phase of my life is the same way
right but that said even the best
venture capitalist will say they got a
lot of losers in their portfolios so
like what when you think about your risk
tolerance for failure how far are you
willing to fail well I mean
unfortunately and fortunately I failed
quite a
bit you know but I understand that's
actually part of the process of
succeeding um I'm not one that really
believe in Failure I believe you have
setbacks and you know you have to learn
from those you have to learn what are
those landmines that can be avoided the
next time what are those pitfalls you
have to learn from that stuff and um so
you're not welcome those things it's a
part of life but are you prepared to
like really fail at something totally
new like what if you're just a shitty VC
then I'm a shitty VC you know and then I
work at it and then I'm not a shitty VC
the next year you know whenever it
happens listen I my first year in the
league on National TV 18 years old I
shot five straight air balls in the
playoffs in front of millions of people
yeah I think my to is pretty high yeah
yeah I think I'm all right right uh it
does seem such a unique Collision you
here you have at one point you're an
incredibly accomplished person and yet
you're also uh a novice in a lot of ways
like it's just a strange Collision it's
awesome yeah why why is it feel awesome
because you go back to the basics I mean
that's the the the most beautiful part
about any craft is starting at the
beginning that is the most purest form
of artistry because you have to learn
the building blocks every little step
all the fundamentals I mean that's the
most beautiful part to me is it's you
know the Championships are a byproduct
of things drills and exercises that I
did when I was six years
old you know that's I absolutely love
where I am so so you're uh a student of
footwork right to use a basketball
analogy right footwork is where it all
where it all starts so from the best you
can tell so far what is the footwork of
Entrepreneurship of the of the craft
you're building today
focus focus don't you know it's you got
to go with things that you understand
you know businesses that you know um um
things that you can really get your arm
around and not speak on things that you
know nothing about right so like you sit
here tonight and you ask me a question I
know nothing about I'm going to say I
know nothing about that okay so
what do you not what do you not know
anything about and what do you feel
comfortable uh knowing things I kind of
had to get a like a a a class today on
what can be said and what can't be say
in terms of set in terms of regulations
when you have a fun like you can say
this you can't say that like I have no
idea I come from an industry where you
can just shoot from the hip and you know
if you say you know you play like crap
you play like crap right you know right
um so what can't you say and can you say
it well you know I I can't say it which
is like sitting here for me it's like
having you know handcuffs around my
tongue cuz I'm I can normally just right
blur it out if you like it cool and if
you don't cool all right so Focus uh
tell us about your fund people may not
know exactly what you're doing so just
give us the basics and tell us some
things maybe an investment too that you
are excited about that show us the focus
that you describe well I mean we we
started u my partner and I Jeff styo
here tonight who's here tonight um you
know about 3 years ago um I started
looking at um what comes next and I
started looking in the invest
space primarily um you know when you're
in the NBA and you're a young player you
have all these meetings and you sit
around with a lot of financial people
and they explain to you um um how you
need to save and how postc career you
know uh if you continue to live the
lifestyle that you're accustomed to
eventually that money's going to run out
etc etc so I started kind of sitting
there and thinking okay what is the
counter to that how can I use the
influence that I currently have now to
build something a value um that can uh
that won't dwindle over time but
actually you thinking this when you were
19 no I was think I started thinking
this when I was about 34 35 or so uh you
know when you when you rupture your
Achilles and you're sitting in bed you
have a lot of time to
think and uh when it hit me I I I wish I
had thought about it earlier so anyway
Jeff and I started uh our fund and
started investing our own capital and uh
you know seeing where that comes seeing
where that leads to and I actually
started enjoying it and uh started
seeing great potential here and uh
hopefully it can be a great example for
other
athletes um because right now you know
the model the way it's set up like
athletes will get endorsement bills
right and you get the cash you're out of
the game you're out of the game that's
exactly right because eventually that
money runs dry right so how can you use
the influence that you currently have
and create somewhat of a hybrid model of
endorsement money where you have that
liquidity but also you build something
of longterm value right so give give us
give us an example of something you're
excited about that you've invested in um
well we we have I think we have a couple
of our CEOs here actually I think Cindy
is here from VIP kids there she is she's
awesome and so VIP kids is where you
have uh English language teachers in the
US primarily right teaching kids in
China right English right and um and
yeah I mean it's it's that's basically
it so America is the sweat shop for
China is that a way to put it yeah your
way to put it not mine all right uh all
right all all right no but it's it's
really about um um inspiring the kids in
China to understand that there's a much
much bigger world out there and helping
them have the opportunities I mean I'm
sure you guys sit here and talk today at
length um about um companies in China
really strategizing about coming into
the US right and that starts at a very
very young level and kids understanding
the market understanding The Branding
understanding the language right so you
got to take small steps and also think
Walter driver is here from scopely who's
absolutely crushing it hopefully tell SC
um so Walter is crushing it and U Can
you tell us about scopely scopely is the
number one U gaming publishing company
in the world I mean right now you know
uh The Walking Dead has been absolutely
killing it uh the latest game whe of
Fortune has been number one I mean
they're and uh you know Walter is
absolutely amazing but Walter and Cindy
both I mean they're strong CEOs
extremely smart CEOs but they even have
a stronger team with them right and you
as an investor those are things that we
look at MH right you don't want to have
a CEO that bels knows everything or she
knows everything you want to be able to
have a CEO that understands they need to
build a team around them that's sharper
and smarter than they are and do you
think your life being on teams helps you
really understand truly understand a
team in a business setting maybe it's
totally different you need someone to
block out or pass the ball that's fine
but if you need Finance function or HR
these these have got to be different
disciplines right no they're completely
different disciplines but but the core
competencies are absolutely the same you
have to rely on others in order to have
success as a group even as an individual
right and you know I had to learn that
the hard way man I wasn't passing for
d i got this dude like you go stand
over there and just wait if it comes to
you pass it back you know what I mean so
I kind of had to learn the process and
then once you understand how to trust
that the five championships
later uh you understand how that thing
works so I don't have to learn that
approach uh right but now you have to
identify it in other people yes you do
right so how do you judge right these
people might be great individuals may
maybe they just shoot the ball all day
long and they're not playing Team ball
well you know for me it's really easy
you sit down you talk with somebody when
I talk with Cindy and she's telling me
about VIP kids she cannot stop MH it's
like it's just it's like one idea after
the other it's one it's like you know
and we're doing this and we're doing
that and we started we started with this
we started with that and the passion
comes out of them you don't have to
search for it it's right there in front
of you right right we sit down talk
basketball I can talk about it
absolutely all day long and tell you
every coverage every counter blah blah
blah blah and that's when you know an
entrepreneur has true passion for it and
you got to start there right okay so how
do you uh judge when that passion
perhaps gone too far you yourself might
say right you were at times too intense
with what you were doing so how do you
judge that calibration that that you're
it's not about judging it it's about
fine-tuning in it you know I I was very
fortunate to have Phil Jackson who who
allow
me to run yeah got Applause for Phil
must be a Nicks guy too he should be
getting booed for the way yeah all right
my man all um but Phil was able to
Mentor me and guide me he he didn't try
to control right right so when you see
that in somebody you see that passion in
somebody you have to let them run you
just try to help guide them along so
they can learn those lessons as they go
and uh you know not make any fatal
errors along the way I think you said
recently uh along the way you wish you
were more empathetic yeah so I I think
this is a really important question for
a lot of people in the audience because
there're a lot of hard charging very
successful very committed people and
maybe they don't suffer fools very well
so how do you how did you personally
make the journey from um dedication and
passion to empathy because I wanted to
win yeah it's like my Approach of doing
it is not working so what can I do
differently and then from there I
started working backwards and saying
okay how am I communicating with P gas
solo how am I communicating with Lamar
with him um what could I change you know
what are they going through what are
they feeling and when we lost to the in
the finals to the Celtics in 2008 that
was a turning point because when I sat
there in the hotel room afterwards I
started thinking about that you know
because it's on me if I didn't feel like
my teammates were aggressive enough that
falls on me and uh I had to understand
what their Journey was how are they
feeling as people what are they going
through when you do that you have that
empathy it also helps you to be a better
leader uh because you know how to reach
them better you know how to communicate
them better but could you have been as
good as you were if you had the empathy
from the start
better better because it cuts both ways
right it may be I may say something that
sounds completely psychotic but just
bear with me for a second so when you
have empathy towards your teammates it
helps you communicate better it helps
you be a better leader right when you
have empathy towards your opponents it
helps you destroy them
quicker right seriously think about it
because you understand exactly who they
are you understand what they've gone
through you understand what buttons to
push you understand if they're insecure
you understand if they fear
embarrassment uh and you can really hit
those butt can you give us an example an
on court example of that Just for kicks
yeah so um when we play teams there
would be certain teams that had like u a
player that they just signed to a Max
contract
right and then the supporting player who
uh was up for free agency who they
hadn't signed yet right so when we play
him during the season I'm saying okay
this is what we're going to do we're
going to double team the guy that hasn't
gotten a Max contract yet we're not
going to let him get a shot off and then
we're going to single cover the guy that
has the max contract and then watch the
guy that doesn't have the max contract
and complain about not getting the
ball all night long just watch them
divide each other right right and those
are little subtle things that we would
do um that simply comes from observation
and understanding your opponent wow I
like that so complely weird or what no
that's brilliant what's the bu what's
the business
equivalent I don't know I haven't
figured been doing it long enough to do
that man I okay um so uh you
obviously have a lot of uh value to uh
companies that want to do business
around the world say particularly
China uh your celebrity has value in
this world right people like wh Ling at
you today how do you personally
separate what your celebrity brings and
all the other thinking that you bring
and are you okay using your celebrity or
might there be times where you're like
you just want me for my image uh I want
to use sort of this new part of me how
how do you how do you do that it depends
you know I mean it depends on the
company you know there's certain
companies that line up with what the
brand represents and then at those times
we can kind of look at um using the name
and likeness um to benefit the company
right there other things that are more
um um um um investment focused right um
but you simply do the work and you know
what I sit around and what I enjoy a lot
is The Branding aspect of it I mean I've
been doing it for years now with Nike
and so forth and writing campaigns and
coming up with the whole through line
and the best way to separate those
things is to Simply do the work you
can't sit here and say okay yeah I'm
going to do this I'm going to do that
and try to convince people about it you
have to simp simply do the work MH and
over time you'll build that credibility
right so how would you judge your
credibility right now when you go to VC
meetings and you're giving them business
advice right you just you just
transition into this I have no idea yeah
right so like when I came into the
league and I sit down in the room and
I'm speaking to players and other
athletes and they're looking at me I I
don't know what they're thinking about
me nor do I care right because I know
the the the trust and The credibility
comes in the work itself so sit around
and we discuss the brand we discuss the
company we discuss the story um we
discussed you know who the who you are
as a company what do you represent what
do you stand for and then in turn how
does that connect to the Innovation that
you're bringing in a product and then
how do those two things connect to human
nature as a whole and then how do you
communicate those in an efficient way
human nature as a whole so I was on the
on the same stage last night with Reed
Hastings and he had this sort of magical
equation right he said how do we
translate the money that we invest into
the joy uh for our users so what is your
uh Secret Sauce of of human nature yeah
it's truth it's absolute truth you got
to be true to who you are as a person
you understand that everybody's Journey
like we sitting in this room right now
everybody has a different Journey how we
got here right but there's also a
through line that connects all of us
right there's a through line and so the
the trick really becomes in how do you
communicate that uh that very narrow
focus in a way that connects that
through line to every single person in
this room right and you know that's what
I enjoy doing that's the fun part so
another part of what you're doing is is
uh Kobe Studios I think trying to get
those story lines to people so give us
some examples of where you can give
truth to people about themselves well I
mean sport Sports is is for me it's very
easy to communicate that right so you
know the best way to do it again is just
to give you an example so what I alluded
to earlier about not making that pass
right you got to track that back to the
way I grew up I grew up in Italy grew up
by myself relying on myself um and you
know not trusting others CU I'm in a
foreign country and all sort stuff so
when you translate that to the game of
basketball of course I'm much more
comfortable relying on myself myself to
shoot through a double team that I am to
passing into somebody else because I can
control the situation right so how do
you communicate that through stories to
raise the level of consciousness of the
next generation of athletes and I'm
young kids I'm talking 9 to 12 years old
you know speaking about these very
complex issues in a very simple and
entertaining way tell tell us like what
that means entertain you simply do it
through story so you you know I've again
not to geek out but for the last years
geek out a bunch of geek I I I sit at
home and now in the office and do
nothing but write all day and outline
all day and outline outline stories
outline uh Sports mythological universe
and wait so so wait you're telling me
you're doing a a b superheroes K we
we'll be doing novels uhhuh you know
we'll be doing films kids aren't reading
novels
I think they will yeah so wait you're
writing a novel is that news here you're
writing a novel I don't think so maybe
it is mean a lot of people won't really
pay attention to what I have to say
so maybe so wait so so what's the name
of the novel don't have one yet what's
the plot of the novel can't tell you
that okay what's the purpose of the
novel uh to inspire to inspire but also
to give very specific details you know
so like um
uh I feel like we've dropped the ball
take basketball for example I really
feel like we've dropped the ball in
teaching the game right so how can you
take a 10-year-old and teach him
strategy about the game of basketball
how to handle a double team um how to
look at angles on the court how can you
do that in a very entertaining way where
the kid doesn't understand he's learning
something at a very very high level but
still he's processing it um when I was a
kid to work on my left hand I'd go home
and I'd eat with my left hand hand I
brush my teeth with my left hand I try
to write my name with my left hand just
so I get comfortable with that right and
those are little stories that we can
bring to the masses but do you think
that most kids today simply don't have
the attention span to do that no I just
think I don't think the stories are good
enough honestly okay uh you think if the
stories are good kids will pay attention
if the story is horrible of course they
not going to pay attention what do you
think about Esports a lot of talk about
orts here today I just may not get it
like if you want to play video games
okay if you want to watch other people
play video games that just seems pretty
lame to me well I mean what I know so
far is you know what what everybody's
kind of saying about where this industry
is going um uh I haven't really dove
into it to be able to sit here and give
you a really detailed answer or response
to it um but I get it I mean it's a form
of entertainment sure you know it's
looking at uh um the sport being played
through a different lens but it's it's
it's all entertainment right okay so uh
any other projects that you're working
on from the storytelling perspective
that you can tell us about an upera
perhaps a what an opera perhaps no okay
no that's not I can't no you can't do
that no no no no uh what's the writing
process like for you it's awesome it's
uh outlining outlining is the most fun
part for me because you you you can't
just say okay this is the through Line
This is the main character you have to
be able to look at it and say okay who
is the main character why are they the
way that they are uh you know which
leads back to the their upbringing who
are the parents you know where do they
come
from you got to go all the way back you
got to create the geography got to
create the you know the economics of the
world that you've created I mean it's
it's like a whole thing so I was
thinking at first okay I'm going to sit
down we're going to write a novel it's
great it's fantastic and then I start
asking question after question and two
and a half years later I'm still
outlining wait so you were wait let me
get this you were a playing NBA player
and you were writing a
novel yeah I mean the last day my my
last game I was actually at the office
till 4:00 or 4:15 actually editing a
bunch of short stories right right and
uh lost track of time and looked at my
watch I was like oh I I better go home I
got my last game to play huh wow that's
pretty cool yeah it's fun so um you
spent a lot of time with these tech
people you're a truth tell so give us
your honest impressions of these people
you meet like what are the good parts
and what are the bad
parts I haven't really seen any bad part
I mean the people that I've met with and
talk to and deal with are all phenomenal
me they all have brilliant ideas um um
and they all believe that their product
is going to bring
something um something of value to the
world so I I've actually enjoyed every
single part of it you get to learn so
much about different Industries right um
and for a curious person I can't think
of a better place to be right so do you
want to be known long term as Kobe
Bryant the Storyteller and business
person who happened to be a basketball
player or the basketball player who had
a a successful career thereafter oh the
depends who you talk to if you talk well
I'm saying if you ask that question to a
writer who's never seen a basketball
game before I would love to be known as
a kick-ass Storyteller right right if
you talk to an athlete that doesn't like
reading a book for anything then I like
to be known as a phenomenal basketball
player personally I would love to be
both because I am both right you can't
shelf one for the other I mean the game
has brought me to where I am today um
you know the investment platform the
Brian style platform the storytelling
that we're doing is going to put me
where I will be 20 years now okay so
where what do you where do have you had
to take your best guess 20 years from
now where am I going to be 20 years now
are you running a are you running Time
Warner or AT&T Time Warner or whatever
the hell they're going to call it no
listen man I I know my strengths and
weaknesses and you know uh running a
public company and
giving good standard political answers
is not my strength okay so you know not
gonna do that all right when that
happens I will gladly step away and just
deal with the cre but would you be happy
doing I don't know three or four great
stories or or film franchises or or even
three or four great novels like that's a
pretty good Legacy yeah well it depends
how big they are right I mean we we
really want to create something that is
epic and you know the patience of making
sure every detail is cared for um making
sure you're hitting the proper Beats
from a plot perspective right you know
the patience the detail so hopefully we
can create something that is absolutely
epic and Timeless and if it isn't
Timeless honestly we won't put it out
you know when we put it out it's because
we believe that is it is the best work
that we can possibly do do you think
that uh people looking for inspiration
from sports figures is that a is that a
reasonable approach for them can we
learn something from sports figures or
is that just kind of a myth unto itself
depends how you look at it right so like
if you if you uh making it up if you
take a kid for example that is
tall and extremely
lanky right it's very uncomfortable with
his height 12 years old uncomfortable
walks around school shoulders slouched
because they're not comfortable in their
skin right right now you move them to
the basketball court where now they
don't want to play the post because they
think it's not cool to play the post
cool to play the post anymore they're on
the wing just saying so all the kids are
playing the perimeter right and so how
you connect how do you connect that
story to you nature right I have no idea
tell me so if you take the kid and
through sport you teach the kid how to
play the post you teach them that
there's Beauty in playing a post what
you're saying to the kid is that there's
Beauty in being who you are there's
Beauty in playing to your strengths so
now through the sport when the kid's
walking down that hallway in school he's
not slouching his shoulders anymore
right he's comfortable with who he is
he's accepting who he is and you can
absolutely do that through sport so what
about adults here these are all fully
formed adults all very successful must
be another tall person back there right
I'm with you get them down in the post
get them down in the post but but for
our group here and for adults everywhere
um we we derive meaning from athletes
because we sort of put our stories onto
them right the struggles right there
it's a mythological undertaking unto
itself um but what would you teach this
group here tonight if there's one thing
they can take away from your experience
what is it Follow Your Passion first mhm
first first first first first um when I
retired from the
game and I sat there asking kind of all
the wrong questions you what's the
biggest industry I can get into and it's
all the wrong stuff and you got to sit
there and ask yourself okay what am I
truly passionate about what do I enjoy
doing and when you feel that way
honestly I mean you feel like you have
never worked a day in your life it's the
most fun thing in the world you get up
in the morning excited about what you're
doing and you got to be really honest
with yourself about it if you wake up in
the morning and you're dreading going to
work dude do something
else do something else and those are
hard decisions to make but when you make
those decisions it's a very liberating
experience and you find out that the
rewards will come all right so are you
going to check the scores of tonight's
games or you going to let it go I I mean
I have no Championship on the line I
have absolutely no reason to check the
scores all right I you know so the
transition is complete the transition is
complete well we're working on it uh
well wait wait wait wait wait wait wait
so you're working on it meaning you
can't let it go entirely just yet I mean
you love the game dude that what the
hell where did you pull that from no I'm
meaning the transition in the sense of
moving into this new industry all right
I thought you meant the transition away
from basketball no no no no no I
appreciate the reach okay all but no two
story tell out here I'm just a story
tell you know there's storytellers and
then there's you know I'm not into
fiction that's not but but there the two
industries right the the investment
industry the storytelling industry those
are the two businesses that I'm
absolutely locked in and focused on
right well you're a peace and I think
for a lot of people uh seeing someone go
through that transition is uh is a point
of inspiration so thanks to Kobe Bryant
for joining us this evening appreciate
it thank you guys